Marin Moore 
Prof. Bilen 
Data Capstone 
6 February 2026 
## Project Idea 2
#### Tractable Data
This project will explore the factors impacting maternal and infant health outcomes, particularly low birth weight and preterm birth. Potential factors include maternal health characteristics, maternal healthcare and prenatal care access, abortion and reproductive healthcare access in the mother’s state, pollution levels in the mother’s state or county, and more.
#### Data Retrieval
Full records of births registered in the United States from 2016 to 2024 are available from the [CDC](https://wonder.cdc.gov/natality-expanded-current.html), reporting the state and county of the birth, maternal demographic and health characteristics, and maternal and infant health outcomes. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reports annual air quality by U.S. state and county in its [Air Quality Statistics Report](https://www.epa.gov/outdoor-air-quality-data/air-quality-statistics-report). Yearly information on the level of protectiveness/restrictiveness of abortion policies, which often correlate with general access to reproductive healthcare, in each state is reported by the [Guttmacher Institute](https://www.guttmacher.org/2023/12/state-policy-trends-2023-first-full-year-roe-fell-tumultuous-year-abortion-and-other). 
#### Model Specification
The models used to analyze the relationships among these variables will be inferential. The high dimensionality of this data enables the exploration of many interactions. For instance, regression models could map which factors have the strongest effect on low birth weight, preterm birth, or select maternal health complications. The project could investigate the correlations between race and low birth rate/preterm birth, between abortion access and infant health complications, between pollution and infant health complications, between prenatal care and maternal health complications, and much more. Data will be primarily drawn from 2023 and 2024. 
#### Stakeholders
Stakeholders in this research include pregnant women and women who plan to (or could) become pregnant, their partners and family, healthcare providers (particularly OBGYNs and physicians), public health officials, insurance companies, legislators and other politicians, reproductive health service providers and activist groups, environmental agencies and activist groups, and the general population because such public health issues (like the relationship of sociopolitical and environmental factors to maternal and infant health) are relevant to all. 
#### Ethics & Implications
This research can expand our understanding of the factors impacting maternal and infant health outcomes. Pregnant women and women who plan to become pregnant could better understand the physical health and environmental risk factors for maternal and infant health complications, allowing themselves and their families to better protect their health. Knowledge of such risk factors also impacts the care and support provided by healthcare providers, public health officials, and insurance companies. If anti-abortion legislation and/or environmental pollution are correlated with poor maternal and infant health outcomes, then legislators, reproductive health groups, and environmental groups can strengthen their efforts to mitigate such harmful phenomena. Other useful insights will likely be revealed once the research is completed. 