My idea 2 is in relation to finance and stock prices. The question that will drive my research will be "Does insider trader impact stock price returns in the resulting days and weeks?"

This data is tractable as the insider trading data can come directly from SEC filing 4, which is a disclosure of every company which experience a buying or selling of equity by their own management or senior leaders. This comes in XML format from the SEC website. Then, stock price data on that day, resulting days, and its fundamentals can be pulled from Yahoo Finance or a similar free API source.

As mentioned above, this data is easily retrievable in Python or R via Yahoo Finance packages or other similar websites which provide updates stock market data. From this i could not only get each individual equities pricing for the day and resulting days and weeks, but i could also use ETF or index trackers which could be used as a benchmark for the whole market. For the SEC filing data, this is available in XML format from their website. The SEC has an API called EDGAR, which could be easily used in addition to the Yahoo data to complete this research question.

This could be done with a regression model which specifies 1 or 0 for a buy or sell event, there could be variables for who does it (CEO, CFO, etc), there could be a transaction price, returns before, returns after, etc. This could give insight into Cummulative Abnormal Return in the specified window for the given stock. We could also do simple case studies with just one stock and not many to see how one event impacted a company and its price for those invested into it.

There are many implications for stakeholders involved with this project. For retail investors, their hard earned money could lie in this companies which then can get impacted by the actions of these leaders and their buying and selling. If there is a strong relationship, you could look into investing money based on these certain events. This could impact directly how people invest their money and why they choose certain stocks.

There are also alot of implications here, one of the main ones I can think of is insider trading and the legality of it. If these events are significantly impacting how a stock trades, then it could implicate that the leaders are illegally trading the stocks based on information that the public does not know. There are some limitations as insiders do have a set of rules to follow which allows them to insider trade, so this could be one hinderance or limitation. 

Overall i will look into this topic and see what the data tells me on insider trading and how it can impact stock returns.